{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;}{\stylesheet{\s0 "Normal;}{\s1 Heading 1;}{\s2 Heading 2;}{\s3 Heading 3;}{\s4 Heading 4;}{\s5 Heading 5;}{\s6 Heading 6;}{\s7 Heading 7;}{\s8 Heading 8;}{\s9 Heading 9;}}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Cygwin/X Frequently Asked Questions}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Cygwin/X Frequently Asked Questions}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb373\li960\sl647\qc {\*\bkmkstart ID_cygwin_45_x_45_faq}{\*\bkmkend ID_cygwin_45_x_45_faq}\b\fs49\f1 Cygwin/X Frequently Asked Questions\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\li960\sl539\qc \fs41 2023-02-18 18:22\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_qanda}{\*\bkmkend ID_qanda}\fs34 Questions and Answers\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_general}{\*\bkmkend ID_general}\fs20\f0 1. General Information\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin_45_x}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin_45_x}1.1. \b0 What is Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Cygwin/X is a port of the X Window System to Cygwin. Cygwin provides a UNIX-like API on the Win32 platform. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_cygwin}\b 1.2. \b0 What is Cygwin?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin tools are, in the words of the Cygwin FAQ (http://cygwin.com/faq.html#faq.what), \'93 ports of the popular GNU development tools and utilities for Microsoft Windows. They run thanks to the Cygwin library which provides the POSIX system calls and environment these programs expect. \'94 Cygwin provides the compiler (gcc), libraries, headers, and other utilities which build and support the operation of Cygwin/X.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_window_45_system}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_window_45_system}\b 1.3. \b0 What is the X Window System?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 [ScheiflerGettys92]\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The X Window System, or X, is a network-transparent window system. With X, multiple applications can run simultaneously in windows, generating text and graphics in monochrome or color on a bitmap display. Network transparency means that application programs can run on machines scattered through the network.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_server}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_server}\b 1.4. \b0 What is an X Server?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 An X Server is a program that provides display and user input services to other programs. In comparison, a file server provides other programs with access to file storage devices. File servers are typically located in a remote location and you use the services of a file server from the machine that you are located at. In contrast, an X Server is typically running on the machine that you are located at; display and user input services may be requested by programs running on your machine, as well as by programs running on remote machines.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_client}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_is_45_x_45_client}\b 1.5. \b0 What is an X client?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 An X client is a program that utilizes the display and user input services provided by an X Server. X clients may run on the same or disparate machine as the X Server that is providing display and user input services.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_display_45_and_45_screen}{\*\bkmkend ID_display_45_and_45_screen}\b 1.6. \b0 What does DISPLAY=:0.0 mean?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  The \i\fs18\f2 DISPLAY\i0\fs20\f0  environment variable instructs an X client which X server it is to connect to by default. Typically this can be overriden by running the client with a \i\fs18\f2 -display\i0\fs20\f0  or \i\fs18\f2 -d\i0\fs20\f0  command line option. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 The \i\fs18\f2 :0.0\i0\fs20\f0  part of the \i\fs18\f2 DISPLAY\i0\fs20\f0  variable denote the display and the screen of an X server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The display is the first number and should equal the display number given to a running instance of an X server. By default the X server uses display number 0. If the X server is using TCP/IP for communication it listens on port 6000 + \i\fs18\f2 display-number\i0\fs20\f0  for X client connections. For local (UNIX domain sockets) it uses the socket \fs18\f2 /tmp/.X11-unix/X\i\fs16 display-number\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \i0\fs20\f0 The screen denotes different output devices of the X server. You could start \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  with two \i\fs18\f2 -screen\i0\fs20\f0  options and would end up with two X11 windows. Each of them is a different screen. Other X servers open different screens for different monitors connected to the computer.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X supports different formats of the \i\fs18\f2 DISPLAY\i0\fs20\f0  variable \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \i\fs18\f2 :0.0\i0\fs20\f0  or \i\fs18\f2 unix:0.0\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260 \i0\fs20\f0 This names a local X server and the communication uses the UNIX domain sockets.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \i\fs18\f2 hostname:0.0\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260 \i0\fs20\f0 This names a remote X server and the communication uses the TCP/IP network.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 See the DISPLAY NAMES section of \b man X\b0  for more information.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_port_45_to_45_windows}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_port_45_to_45_windows}\b\lang1024 1.7. \b0 Why port the X Window System to Microsoft Windows?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Porting X Window System to Microsoft Windows benefits many people and projects in many ways:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Prior to Cygwin/X only commercial, closed source X Servers were available for Microsoft Windows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 An X Server on Windows may be used to display the output of programs running on remote UNIX machines.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Cygwin/X, in conjunction with Cygwin, provides a complete compatibility layer for compiling and running UNIX applications on Microsoft Windows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_newsgroup}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_newsgroup}\b 1.8. \b0 Is there a Cygwin/X newsgroup?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 No, Cygwin/X does not have a newsgroup; however, we do have a mailing list. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_mailing_45_list}{\fldrslt Q: 1.9.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 You can read and post to the mailing list using your newsreader using the GMANE (http://gmane.org/find.php?list=os.cygwin) mail-to-news gateway.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_mailing_45_list}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_mailing_45_list}\b\lang1024 1.9. \b0 Is there a Cygwin/X mailing list?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Yes, Cygwin/X is on-topic for the cygwin@cygwin.com mailing list. Non-subscribers may post to this list. Visit the Cygwin Mailing Lists (https://cygwin.com/lists.html) page to subscribe to cygwin@cygwin.com as well as to read and search an online archive of the mailing list traffic.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_installation}{\*\bkmkend ID_installation}\b 2. Installation\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_windows_45_versions_45_supported}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_windows_45_versions_45_supported}2.1. \b0 What versions of Windows does Cygwin/X run on?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X aims to support all versions of Windows supported by Cygwin.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 However, Cygwin/X is not tested on older versions of Windows (i.e. Windows NT4, Windows 2000) and may be broken. Problem reports are welcomed.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X requires Cygwin to compile and run. Cygwin is not, as of writing, available on Microsoft Windows CE, therefore Cygwin/X is not currently available on Microsoft Windows CE.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_install}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_install}\b\lang1024 2.2. \b0 How is Cygwin/X installed?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The Cygwin/X User's Guide (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/ug/cygwin-x-ug.html) thoroughly documents the installation process. Installation is performed through Cygwin's setup program.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cant_45_read_45_lock_45_file}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cant_45_read_45_lock_45_file}\b 2.3. \b0 Fatal server error: Can't read lock file /tmp/.X0-lock\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260  A1: /tmp resides on a FAT filesystem \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Start the server with the \i\fs18\f2 -nolock\i0\fs20\f0  option. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\fldrslt Q: 4.2.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 You should really consider updating the filesystem to NTFS using Microsoft's \b convert.exe\b0  tool.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024  A2: /tmp resides on a NTFS filesystem. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 This can be caused by a stale lock file being left behind after the X server is run by a user with Adminstrator rights, which cannot be overwritten when the X server is next run by a user without Adminstrator rights.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Failure to clean up the lock file properly is a bug in the X server, but until that is fixed the following workarounds may be neccessary.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab \lang1024 1.\tab Try removing the stale lock file using \b rm -f /tmp/.X\i\fs18\f2 n\i0\fs20\f0 -lock\b0  where \i\fs18\f2 n\i0\fs20\f0  is the display number. If this fails due to insufficent permissions, you must either get the owner or a user with Adminstrator rights to remove the stale lock file.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab 2.\tab Try starting the server with the \i\fs18\f2 -nolock\i0\fs20\f0  option. (See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\fldrslt Q: 4.2.}})\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Technical details: The X server attempts to create a lock file in \fs18\f2 /tmp\fs20\f0  by creating the file under a temporary name, then renaming it to the proper name (by hard linking it under the correct name, then unlinking it from the temporary name). If this rename fails it attempts to read the existing lock file to determine the pid of an already running server. The FAT filesystem does not support hardlinks so this operation cannot succeed. On NFTS filesystems, the failure case appears to be that lock file was created successfully, but the rename failed due to a stale lock file created by a user with Adminstrator rights.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_startxwin_45_no_45_windows}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_startxwin_45_no_45_windows}\b\lang1024 2.4. \b0 Nothing appears to happen when I try to start the X server using the "XWin Server" start menu shortcut. \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  A1: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 This answer should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Task manager shows the \b startxwin.exe\b0  process starting, spawning \b XWin.exe\b0  and \b xterm.exe\b0 , but no windows are shown. Running \b startxwin.exe\b0  from a bash shell works correctly. This is caused by having \i\fs18\f2 tty\i0\fs20\f0  in the \i\fs18\f2 CYGWIN\i0\fs20\f0  environment variable set through the Windows control panel. Removing \i\fs18\f2 tty\i0\fs20\f0  resolves this issue.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If you really need \i\fs18\f2 CYGWIN=tty\i0\fs20\f0  for working with \b cmd.exe\b0  windows, you'll have to arrange to set that by some other means before invoking \b cygwin.bat\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024  A2: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Try running \b startxwin\b0  from a \b bash\b0  shell in the \b mintty\b0  terminal emulator, it should output some error message which should indicate why it's not able to start.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1840\sl234 \b\fs18\lang1024\f1 Note: \b0 For technical reasons, the output of XWin doesn't appear in \b cmd.exe\b0  windows unless the \i\fs16\f2 CYGWIN\i0\fs18\f1  environment variable set through the Windows control panel contains \i\fs16\f2 tty\i0\fs18\f1 , so to ensure the output can be seen, use \b mintty\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_modular}{\*\bkmkend ID_modular}\b\fs20\f0 3. Upgrade\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_x_45_is_45_broke}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_x_45_is_45_broke}3.1. \b0 What happened to my X server? Where did \fs18\f2 /usr/X11R6/\fs20\f0  go? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The upgrade from X.Org R6.8 to modular X.Org R7.4 made a lot of changes. Please read the announce email (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-xfree-announce/2008-11/msg00000.html) and pay attention to the upgrade instructions \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_i_45_cant_45_type_45_anything}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_i_45_cant_45_type_45_anything}\b 3.2. \b0 I upgraded my X server and now I can't type anything into any X application\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Launch the X server via the shortcut under "Cygwin-X" on the start menu.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Technical details: The \b startxwin.bat\b0  script used to set several enviroment variables used by the X server to specify the location of files it needs to access. Specifically this batch file would set \i\fs18\f2 XKEYSYMDB\i0\fs20\f0  to \fs18\f2 /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/XKeysymDB\fs20\f0 . This file was moved to \fs18\f2 /usr/share/X11/XKeysymDB\fs20\f0 . The keyboard won't work if \i\fs18\f2 XKEYSYMDB\i0\fs20\f0  points to a non-existent file.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If you are (perhaps unintentionally) using a copy of the old \b startxwin.bat\b0  (perhaps under another name) to start the X server, remove the environment variables \i\fs18\f2 XAPPLRESDIR\i0\fs20\f0 , \i\fs18\f2 XCMSDB\i0\fs20\f0 , \i\fs18\f2 XNLSPATH\i0\fs20\f0  and \i\fs18\f2 XKEYSYMDB\i0\fs20\f0  from it, or (preferrably) use the updated \b startxwin\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If \b echo $XKEYSYMDB\b0  outputs something, you have something else setting \i\fs18\f2 XKEYSYMDB\i0\fs20\f0  in your environment. Find it and remove it.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 These variables were always being set to the defaults, so they can simply be removed. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_microsoft_45_services_45_for_45_unix}{\fldrslt Q: 8.8.}} for the reason why you might need to set them.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_whereis_45_startxwin_45_bat}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_whereis_45_startxwin_45_bat}\b\lang1024 3.3. \b0 I can't find \b startxwin.bat\b0  or \b startxwin.exe\b0  to start the X server\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  The executable \b startxwin.exe\b0  previously used to start the X server has been retired and replaced with a shell script \b startxwin\b0 . \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 The MS-DOS batch file \b startxwin.bat\b0  previously used to start the X server has been retired, as implementing this as a batch file made it difficult to reliably wait until the the X server had started before starting any clients.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 X.Org now uses the prefix \fs18\f2 /usr\fs20\f0  not \fs18\f2 /usr/X11R6\fs20\f0 . So \b startxwin.bat\b0  was moved from \fs18\f2 /usr/X11R6/bin/startxwin.bat\fs20\f0  to \fs18\f2 /usr/bin/startxwin.bat\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 A "XWin Server" shortcut to \b startxwin\b0  is created on the Start menu, under "Cygwin-X"\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \b startxwin\b0  and the Start menu link to it are now installed by the \fs18\f2 xinit\fs20\f0  package.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_moved_45_1}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_moved_45_1}\b\lang1024 3.4. \b0 Moved question\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_where_45_are_45_my_45_fonts}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_where_45_are_45_my_45_fonts}\b 3.5. \b0 My favourite font has gone! The font Emacs uses is just boxes\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Only minimal fonts will be installed after the upgrade from X.Org R6.8 to modular X.Org. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Font packages are now named \fs18\f2 font-<author/class>-<fonttype>\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 Some packages dependencies have not yet been updated for the fonts they require, so you may need to manually install the needed fonts. For example, to provide the font emacs wants to use by default you will probably want to install \fs18\f2 font-adobe-dpi75\fs20\f0  (or \fs18\f2 font-adobe-dpi100\fs20\f0  if you like large fonts). This package provides the \i\fs18\f2 courier\i0\fs20\f0 , \i\fs18\f2 helvetica\i0\fs20\f0 , \i\fs18\f2 new century schoolbook\i0\fs20\f0  and \i\fs18\f2 times\i0\fs20\f0  font families.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The \i\fs18\f2 lucida\i0\fs20\f0  font family is provided by the package \fs18\f2 font-bh-dpi75\fs20\f0  (or \fs18\f2 font-bh-dpi100\fs20\f0 ). The monospaced version, \i\fs18\f2 lucida typewriter\i0\fs20\f0  is provided by the package \fs18\f2 font-bh-lucidatypewriter-dpi75\fs20\f0  (or \fs18\f2 font-bh-lucidatypewriter-dpi100\fs20\f0 ).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Note that after installing fonts you will need to restart the X server or run \b xset fp default; xset fp rehash\b0  to make the new fonts available\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_where_45_is_45_xxyzy}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_where_45_is_45_xxyzy}\b\lang1024 3.6. \b0 Where has \b xhost\b0 /\b xlsfonts\b0 /etc. gone?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Previously all the X utility programs were contained in a single package, \fs18\f2 xorg-x11-bin\fs20\f0 , which needed to be updated when any of the programs it contained was updated. In modular X each of these programs can be found in a separate package, usually named \b xhost\b0 /\b xlsfont\b0 /etc.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_do_45_i_45_get_45_rid_45_of_45_xterm_45_menu}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_do_45_i_45_get_45_rid_45_of_45_xterm_45_menu}\b 3.7. \b0 How do I get rid of that menu at the top of my xterm?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Run it as \b xterm +tb\b0 , or add \i\fs18\f2 XTerm*toolBar: false\i0\fs20\f0  to \fs18\f2 ~/.Xresources\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_ssh_45_y}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_ssh_45_y}\b\fs20\f0 3.8. \b0 ssh -X now says "Warning: untrusted X11 forwarding setup failed: xauth key data not generated"\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_ssh_45_no_45_x11forwarding}{\fldrslt Q: 6.1.}} and following. See point 3 in this mail (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-xfree/2008-11/msg00154.html). Use ssh -Y.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Technical details: \b ssh\b0  tried to run \b xauth generate\b0  to create a untrusted cookie for the session, which failed because the server isn't compiled with the XCSECURITY extension built-in. Since OpenSSH 7.2p1, \b ssh\b0  does \i not\i0  fallback to trusted forwarding, so no X11 forwarding is setup.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_nedit_45_wont_45_start}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_nedit_45_wont_45_start}\b\lang1024 3.9. \b0 \b nedit\b0  fails to start with an error message \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\lang1033\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ nedit\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
X Error of failed request:  BadMatch (invalid parameter attributes)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Major opcode of failed request:  70 (X_PolyFillRectangle)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Serial number of failed request:  some number\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Current serial number in output stream:  some other number\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 \b nedit\b0  needs rebuilding with a patch to work around an issue \fs18\f2 lesstif\fs20\f0  has with current X servers.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Until this happemns, you can work around the issue by adding \i\fs18\f2 XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS\i0\fs20\f0  to your enviroment, e.g. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ nedit\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_startx_45_is_45_has_45_root_45_window}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_startx_45_is_45_has_45_root_45_window}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 3.10. \b0 I start my X server with \b startx\b0  or \b xinit\b0  and now all my X windows are contained within one large root Windows window? How do I get it back to each X window in it's own Windows window? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  This is a deliberate change from Cygwin/X X11 R6.9 behaviour. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab \lang1033 1.\tab Start the X server using the "XWin Server" shortcut under "Cygwin-X" on the Start menu, or using \b startxwin\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260 Note: If you wish to customize the X clients started when the X server starts, you can do so using a \fs18\f2 ~/.startxwinrc\fs20\f0  script.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab 2.\tab Alternatively, add the server option \i\fs18\f2 -multiwindow\i0\fs20\f0  to your \b xinit\b0  or \b startx\b0  invocation, i.e. \b xinit -- -multiwindow\b0  or \b startx -- -multiwindow\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab \b0 3.\tab Alternatively, put \b XWin -multiwindow\b0  into \fs18\f2 ~/.xserverrc\fs20\f0  or \fs18\f2 /etc/X11/xinit/xserverrc\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_moved_45_2}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_moved_45_2}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 3.11. \b0 Moved question\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_startxwinrc_45_exit}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_startxwinrc_45_exit}\b 3.12. \b0 I upgraded and now X exits immediately after starting\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Since \fs18\f2 xinit-1.3.4-1\fs20\f0 , \b startxwin\b0  is now implemented by a script based on \b startx\b0 . Unfortunately, this has changed the behaviour in a backwards-incompatible way, as the X server is now killed when \fs18\f2 ~/.startxwinrc\fs20\f0  exits. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 If you have an empty \fs18\f2 ~/.startxwinrc\fs20\f0 , you should change it to contain \b exec sleep infinity\b0  so the X server will not exit until explicitly told to do so.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If you are using a custom \fs18\f2 ~/.startxwinrc\fs20\f0 , either run the last client in the foreground (i.e. without \b &\b0 ), so the X server exits when that client exits, or use \b exec sleep infinity\b0  as described above.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 You should also make sure that \fs18\f2 ~/.startxwinrc\fs20\f0  is executable (e.g. \b chmod +x ~/.startxwinrc\b0 ).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 See the announce mail (https://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-xfree-announce/2014-11/msg00004.html) for more details.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xserver_45_nolisten_45_tcp_45_default}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xserver_45_nolisten_45_tcp_45_default}\b\lang1024 3.13. \b0 I upgraded and now X clients can't connect\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 A1:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Since X server 1.17, by default the server does not listen for TCP/IP connections, only accepting local connections on a unix domain socket.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 For local clients, use \b DISPLAY=:0.0\b0 , rather than \b DISPLAY=localhost:0.0\b0 , \b DISPLAY=127.0.0.1:0.0\b0 , \b DISPLAY=::1:0.0\b0 , etc. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_display_45_and_45_screen}{\fldrslt Q: 1.6.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024 A2:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 For remote clients, rather than connecting over TCP/IP by explicitly setting \i\fs18\f2 DISPLAY\i0\fs20\f0  and allowing access using \b xhost\b0  or by disabling access control, use ssh tunnelling with \b ssh -Y\b0  instead. (See the User's Guide section on X forwarding using ssh (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/ug/using-remote-apps.html#using-remote-apps-ssh) for more details).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024 A3:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Use the \i\fs18\f2 -listen tcp\i0\fs20\f0  option to restore the previous behaviour, allowing the X server to open a TCP/IP socket as well e.g. \b startxwin -- -listen tcp\b0 . See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\fldrslt Q: 4.2.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_configuration}{\*\bkmkend ID_configuration}\b\lang1024 4. Configuration\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_xf86config}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_xf86config}4.1. \b0 Is there an xorg.conf or XF86Config file?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 No. Options which are configurable are available as command line options. For example, for more information on configuring other keyboard layouts using command line options, see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\fldrslt Q: 5.1.1.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}\b 4.2. \b0 What are the command line options for \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0 ? How do I add command line options for \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0 ?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The Cygwin/X User's Guide (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/ug/cygwin-x-ug.html) and \b man XWin\b0  (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/man1/XWin.1.html) document the command line options for X.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 To supply a command line option to \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0 : \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 If you use the start menu shortcut to start the X server, you will need to amend it's target to add an option, e.g. \b C:\\cygwin\\bin\\run.exe --quote /usr/bin/bash.exe -l -c "/usr/bin/startxwin -- -nolock"\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li2040\sl234 \fs18\f1 Note: \b0 Note well that the entire command after \i\fs16\f2 -c\i0\fs18\f1  is quoted\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li2040\sl234 \b Note: \b0 Note that this start menu shortcut is created by the \fs16\f2 xinit\fs18\f1  package, and your changes will be overwritten when the \fs16\f2 xinit\fs18\f1  package is updated.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li2040\sl234 \b Note: \b0 Note that X server options to \b startxwin\b0  are preceded by \i\fs16\f2 --\i0\fs18\f1 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16\f0 \'95\tab \fs20 If you use \b startxwin\b0 , \b xinit\b0  or \b startx\b0  to start the server, run it as e.g. \b startxwin -- -nolock\b0 , \b xinit -- -nolock\b0  or \b startx -- -nolock\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \b0\fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 If you use \fs18\f2 startxwin.bat\fs20\f0  or \fs18\f2 startxwin.sh\fs20\f0  to start the server, add e.g. \i\fs18\f2 -nolock\i0\fs20\f0  to the \b XWin\b0  line in that script.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_display_45_depth_45_ignored}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_display_45_depth_45_ignored}\b\lang1024 4.3. \b0 Why does \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  ignore the display depth that I pass on the command line?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 When running in windowed mode or GDI-based fullscreen mode, \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  must run the X Server at whatever display depth Windows is currently using; in these cases the display depth passed on the command line is ignored. \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  only uses the display depth parameter when running in a DirectDraw-based fullscreen mode, as DirectDraw allows applications to change the display resolution and depth when running in fullscreen mode.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_three_45_button_45_emulation}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_three_45_button_45_emulation}\b 4.4. \b0 I have a two button mouse, can I emulate a three button mouse?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Yes. Pass the \i\fs18\f2 -emulate3buttons \fs16 timeout_in_milliseconds\i0\fs20\f0  parameter to \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0 , where \i\fs18\f2 timeout_in_milliseconds\i0\fs20\f0  is the, optional, maximum number of milliseconds between a button release and opposite button press that will trigger an emulated third button press.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_window_45_auto_45_focus}{\*\bkmkend ID_window_45_auto_45_focus}\b 4.5. \b0 Is there a Focus-Follows-Mouse feature (Auto-Focus)?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This is a setting of the window manager used. The default window manager \b twm\b0  has no such feature. But with \b fvwm2\b0  this can be achieved with the this configuration entry: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 Focus FocusFollowsMouse\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 Other window managers (eg. \b windowmaker\b0 ) have similar features too.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 If you are using the \i\fs18\f2 -multiwindow\i0\fs20\f0  mode you can not set this behaviour in the window manager but you can use the TweakUI tool to enable this feature for all windows, not limited to Cygwin/X windows.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_disable_45_terminate_45_server}{\*\bkmkend ID_disable_45_terminate_45_server}\b\lang1024 4.6. \b0 The option -nounixkill has no effect. How can i prevent the server shutdown an Ctrl-Alt-BackSpace?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  This question should be obsolete as the TerminateServer keybinding is no longer present by default. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 The TerminateServer keybinding can be enabled with \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 setxkbmap -option terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_multihead}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_multihead}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 4.7. \b0 I have a multihead system. Do I need special options to make it work? I have a multihead system. Why are my X-application windows white?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 You should start \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  with the \i\fs18\f2 -multiplemonitors\i0\fs20\f0  option.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Note that this option is enabled by default in \i\fs18\f2 -multiwindow\i0\fs20\f0  mode.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_firewall}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_firewall}\b\lang1024 4.8. \b0 I have a firewall. Is there anything I have to take care of? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  uses port 6000/TCP when the option \i\fs18\f2 -listen tcp\i0\fs20\f0  is used. You will have to allow incoming and outgoing traffic on this port even if you are only using local clients. \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  has a builtin access control so you won't have to worry about opening the port. If you are still concerned about security, you may limit the allowed hosts to the local IP addresses.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 If you use a different display number check section {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_display_45_and_45_screen}{\fldrslt Q: 1.6.}} for details about which ports are used. For additional information about firewalls and XDMCP connections check {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_query}{\fldrslt Q: 7.3.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_i18n}{\*\bkmkend ID_i18n}\b\lang1024 5. Internationalization\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_i18n_45_keyboard}{\*\bkmkend ID_i18n_45_keyboard}5.1. Keyboard support\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}5.1.1. \b0 How do I use a non-U.S. keyboard layout?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 Some keyboard layouts are autodetected from the Windows keyboard settings. For these layouts no special change is needed. For all other layouts there is the possibility to configure the layout via commandline options.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 \lang1033 The main option for changing the layout is \i\fs18\f2 -xkblayout \fs16 countrycode\i0\fs20\f0  where \i\fs18\f2 countrycode\i0\fs20\f0  is in most cases the 2 character code which also represents the country in internet adresses (e.g. Australia = au, Deutschland = de, France = fr, Japan = jp)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 Other options for tweaking the XKB layout are \i\fs18\f2 -xkbmodel\i0\fs20\f0 ,\i\fs18\f2 -xkbvariant\i0\fs20\f0 , \i\fs18\f2 -xkboptions\i0\fs20\f0  and \i\fs18\f2 -xkbrules\i0\fs20\f0 . These are the counterparts for the similar named options known from the xorg.conf file.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 If the loading fails, check {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_xkb_45_not_45_working}{\fldrslt Q: 5.1.6.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_submit_45_layout}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_submit_45_layout}\b\lang1024 5.1.2. \b0 Is there a way to add a layout to the list of autodetected layouts?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 If your keyboard layout is not automatically detected you can send the required information for including it into Cygwin/X to cygwin@cygwin.com. Please include the following information in your mail:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li2120\sl260\fi-200 \tx2120 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 The windows keyboard layout code and the layout name\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li2120\sl260 \lang1033 You will find it in \fs18\f2 /var/log/xwin/XWin.0.log\fs20\f0  in lines similar to these: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li2120\sl234 \fs18\f2 (--) winConfigKeyboard - Layout: "00001809" (00001809)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
(EE) Keyboardlayout "Irish" (00001809) is unknown\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li2120\sl260\fi-200 \tx2120 \fs16\lang1024\f0 \'95\tab \fs20 The XKB layout code for this layout if you know it. Please experiment with \b setxkbmap\b0  or \i\fs18\f2 -xkblayout\i0\fs20\f0  (as described in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\fldrslt Q: 5.1.1.}}) to find an XKB layout code which works for you, otherwise the maintainers will have to guess it.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li2120\sl260\fi-200 \tx2120 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 A description how the layout looks like. This makes it easy to identify the matching XKB layout code. Many layouts are available from the Microsoft Global Dev (http://www.microsoft.com/globaldev/reference/keyboards.mspx) website \i (It seems that website only works with some browsers)\i0 . Just add a link to your layout.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_modmap_45_obtaining}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_modmap_45_obtaining}\b 5.1.3. \b0 Where can I find an xmodmap for my non-U.S. keyboard layout?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 This question should be obsolete The package \fs18\f2 xkeyboard-config\fs20\f0  should contain just about any needed layout\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 Or, you can use \b xkeycaps\b0  to automatically generate a modmap for one of over 208 different layouts. See the xkeycaps home page (http://www.jwz.org/xkeycaps/) to download and for more information.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_modmap_45_and_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_modmap_45_and_45_xdmcp}\b 5.1.4. \b0 How do I get my non-U.S. keyboard modmap to be installed when using xdmcp?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_non_45_U_46_S_46__45_keyboard_45_layout}{\fldrslt Q: 5.1.1.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_aix_45_xkb}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_aix_45_xkb}\b 5.1.5. \b0 Logging into AIX via XDMCP causes the keyboard to function as if \b AltGr\b0  is permanently pressed.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260  [paraphrased from the Xming FAQ (http://www.straightrunning.com/XmingNotes/trouble.php)] AIX login scripts contain a call to xmodmap (for IBM keyboards) which causes the keyboard to be incorrectly configured for XWin. Commenting out those calls should allow you to use XWin with AIX. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 \lang1033 The XKB extension is now always enabled in the X.Org xserver, so the previous answer to this question of disabling the XKB extension with the \i\fs18\f2 -kb\i0\fs20\f0  parameter is no longer applicable.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xkb_45_not_45_working}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xkb_45_not_45_working}\b\lang1024 5.1.6. \b0 Loading an XKB keyboard layout selected with -xkblayout fails\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 Not all keyboard layouts are tested very well and some contain errors or do not work at all. To test if the compiling of your layout works start \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
setxkbmap \i\fs16 de\i0\fs18  -print | xkbcomp -w3 -xkm - :0.0\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 \fs20\f0  (replace the "de" with your layout code). This may produce warnings, but must not produce errors. If there are errors then please report them to the mailing list.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_alt_45_gr_45_win_45_xp_45_powertoys}{\*\bkmkend ID_alt_45_gr_45_win_45_xp_45_powertoys}\b 5.1.7. \b0 I have Windows XP with Powertoys installed and AltGr does not work. What can I do?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_alt_45_gr_45_with_45_old_45_x}{\*\bkmkend ID_alt_45_gr_45_with_45_old_45_x}\b 5.1.8. \b0 AltGr does not work properly when connecting to various older commercial unices (e.g. HP-UX, AIX) or to old XFree86.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260  \fs18\f2 xkeyboard-config\fs20\f0  XKB keyboard layouts generally have AltGr mapped as ISO_Level3_Shift to access additional characters on non-english keyboards. For reasons unknown to us, this is incompatible with some older X11 releases. We don't have access to such a machine, so we are unable to track this down and find a reason. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 \lang1033 It has been reported that sometimes it helps to run \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
DISPLAY=:0.0 setxkbmap \i\fs16 languagecode\i0\fs18 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 \fs20\f0  from a cygwin shell after connecting.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 See this mailing list thread (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-xfree/2011-07/msg00011.html) for more discussion and a possible workaround.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_i18n_45_display}{\*\bkmkend ID_i18n_45_display}\b\lang1024 5.2. Display problems\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}5.2.1. \b0 How do I get \b bash\b0  to display accents and/or umlauts?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 (Heinz Peter Hippenstiel) Add the following lines to \fs18\f2 .inputrc\fs20\f0  in your Cygwin home directory (e.g. \fs18\f2 ~/.inputrc\fs20\f0 ): \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
set input-meta on    # to accept 8-bit characters\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
set output-meta on   # to show 8-bit characters\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
set convert-meta off # to show it as character, not the octal representation\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_bash_45_8bit}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_bash_45_8bit}\b\fs20\f0 5.2.2. \b0 How do I put \b bash\b0  into \'938 bit\'94 mode?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}{\fldrslt Q: 5.2.1.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xterm_45_utf8}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xterm_45_utf8}\b 5.2.3. \b0 How do I display unicode characters in an \b xterm\b0 ? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1920\sl260 A1: for Cygwin 1.7\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 \lang1033 If you have a UTF-8 locale configured, this should all just work :-).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 To confirm this is working properly, you may try the following:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ wget http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/examples/quickbrown.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[...]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cat quickbrown.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ wget http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/examples/UTF-8-demo.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[...]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cat UTF-8-demo.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 If you want to be able type unicode characters into this \b xterm\b0 , you'll need to configure your \b bash\b0  shell not to escape 8-bit characters, see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}{\fldrslt Q: 5.2.1.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 \lang1024 A2: for Cygwin 1.5\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 \lang1033 Start your \b xterm\b0  in UTF-8 mode as \b xterm +lc -u8\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 To confirm this is working properly, you may try the following\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ wget http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/examples/quickbrown.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[...]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cat quickbrown.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 For reasons I don't currently understand, the default fixed font is only capable of supplying accented roman, hiragana and katakana characters, so if you wish to work with e.g. greek, cyrillic, hebrew, thai, etc. you'll need to start your xterm specifying a suitable font e.g. \b xterm +lc -u8 -fn -misc-fixed-medium-r-semicondensed--13-120-75-75-c-60-iso10646-1\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 \b0 To confirm this is working properly, you may try the following\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ wget http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/examples/UTF-8-demo.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[...]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ cat UTF-8-demo.txt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1920\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 For other programs run from your xterm to output properly (e.g. \b less\b0 , which is why \b cat \b0 is used in the examples above), you may also need to set the LANG environment variable to \i\fs18\f2 LL_CC\i0\fs20\f0 .UTF-8, where LL_CC is your language and country code.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 If you want to be able type unicode characters into this \b xterm\b0 , you'll need to configure your \b bash\b0  shell not to escape 8-bit characters, see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_bash_45_extended_45_chars}{\fldrslt Q: 5.2.1.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1920\sl260 See also the main Cygwin FAQ question on unicode support in Cygwin (http://cygwin.com/faq/faq.html#faq.using.unicode)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_remote}{\*\bkmkend ID_remote}\b\lang1024 6. Remote connections\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_ssh_45_no_45_x11forwarding}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_ssh_45_no_45_x11forwarding}6.1. \b0 X11Forwarding does not work with OpenSSH under Cygwin\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 A1:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Try adding the \i\fs18\f2 -v\i0\fs20\f0  option to \b ssh\b0 , which often pinpoints the reason for a connection problem.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 From the \b ssh\b0  man-page : \i -v Verbose mode. Causes ssh to print debugging messages about its progress. This is helpful in debugging connection, authentication, and configuration problems. Multiple -v options increase the verbosity. The maximum is 3.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \i0\lang1024 A2:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Before establishing the ssh connection the xserver must be started and the environment variable \i\fs18\f2 DISPLAY\i0\fs20\f0  must be set. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ DISPLAY=\i\fs16 :0.0\i0\fs18 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ export DISPLAY\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ ssh -Y \i\fs16 remotehost\i0\fs18 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0  or \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
$ DISPLAY=\i\fs16 :0.0\i0\fs18  ssh -Y \i\fs16 remotehost\i0\fs18 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\lang1024\f0 A3:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Make sure you're not starting \b ssh\b0  with the option \i\fs18\f2 -X\i0\fs20\f0 . Since OpenSSH 7.2p1, \b ssh\b0  does \i not\i0  fallback to trusted forwarding, option \i\fs18\f2 -Y\i0\fs20\f0 , so no X11 forwarding is setup. Use \b ssh -Y\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Make sure you're not starting \b ssh\b0  with the option \i\fs18\f2 -x\i0\fs20\f0  (lowercase). This disables X11 forwarding.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024 A4:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Check that X11Forwarding is not disabled in the ssh client configuration.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The configfiles are by default \fs18\f2 ~/.ssh/config\fs20\f0  and \fs18\f2 /etc/ssh_config\fs20\f0 . The file in the home directory overrides settings in the global one.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The configfile is split into various sections starting with \'93Host \i\fs18\f2 wildcard\i0\fs20\f0 \'94. The section applies to all hosts where \i\fs18\f2 wildcard\i0\fs20\f0  matches the hostname.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If this section contains an entry \'93ForwardX11 no\'94 then X11Forwarding is disabled. To enable it change the entry to:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
ForwardX11 yes\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 A5:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Check that X11Forwarding is not disabled in the ssh server configuration.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The configfile is by default \fs18\f2 /etc/ssh/sshd_config\fs20\f0 . If there is an entry \'93X11Forwarding no\'94 then X11Forwarding is disabled.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If you have write access to the config file then change it to \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
X11Forwarding yes\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0  The OpenSSH server must be restarted or SIGHUP'ed to re-read the configuration file after it is changed. Otherwise, ask your administrator to change this for you.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024 A6:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 [Frederick W. Wheeler] If the \i remote\i0  machine is a Windows machine using Cygwin OpenSSH server, make sure the Cygwin \b xauth\b0  package is installed on the \i remote\i0  machine. The OpenSSH server needs to be able to run \b xauth\b0  to do X11 Forwarding.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_bad_45_atom}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_bad_45_atom}\b\lang1024 6.2. \b0 Why do remote programs crash with an X Error of failed request: BadAtom? Why do remote programs exit when you try to copy and paste? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete since the SECURITY extension is now disabled\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 OpenSSH 3.8 enables untrusted {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_x11forwarding}{\fldrslt \i X11Forwarding}} by default when connecting to an ssh server that supports it.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 You will quickly notice that this is the case if most of your X applications are now killed when you try to copy and paste, X applications fail with an error similar to that below, or if \b xdpyinfo\b0  returns only a fraction of the supported extensions that it does if run locally.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2  X Error of failed request: BadAtom (invalid Atom parameter)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Major opcode of failed request: 18 (X_ChangeProperty)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Atom id in failed request: 0x114\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Serial number of failed request: 370\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Current serial number in output stream: 372\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 It is easiest to just override untrusted X11Forwarding by passing \i\fs18\f2 -Y\i0\fs20\f0  to \b ssh\b0  in place of \i\fs18\f2 -X\i0\fs20\f0 . The \i\fs18\f2 -Y\i0\fs20\f0  does the same thing as \i\fs18\f2 -X\i0\fs20\f0 , but it enables trusted X11 forwarding for the current connection.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Setting \'93ForwardX11Trusted yes\'94 in the ssh client configuration file does the same thing. See \b man ssh_config\b0  for more information.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_ssh_45_no_45_x11forwarding}{\fldrslt Q: 6.1.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_trusted_45_untrusted_45_x11_45_forwarding}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_trusted_45_untrusted_45_x11_45_forwarding}\b\lang1024 6.3. \b0 I'm confused about the difference between trusted and untrusted X11 forwarding. What does "Warning: untrusted X11 forwarding setup failed: xauth key data not generated" mean? Why is the SECURITY extension disabled? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  The warning means that ssh is going to use \i trusted\i0  X11 forwarding because \i untrusted\i0  X11 forwarding depends on the SECURITY extension, which isn't built into the X server and has been disabled by default upstream. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Trusted X11 forwarding means that you trust the server that you wish to ssh into. The X server will allow remote clients to do whatever a local client would be able to do to your X session, for example, monitor your keypresses and take a screenshot. Such programs could be run by a malicious or compromised root user on the ssh server, or under your account if it was compromised on the ssh server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Starting with OpenSSH 3.8, untrusted forwarding is the default when X forwarding is requested using the \i\fs18\f2 -X\i0\fs20\f0  command line option and you need to use the option \i\fs18\f2 -Y\i0\fs20\f0  or specify \'93ForwardX11Trusted yes\'94 in the client configuration for trusted forwarding by default.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Since OpenSSH 7.2p1, untrusted forwarding (\b ssh\b0  \i\fs18\f2 -X\i0\fs20\f0 ) does \i not\i0  fallback to \b ssh\b0  \i\fs18\f2 -Y\i0\fs20\f0  trusted forwarding.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 So why is this disabled? Untrusted X11 forwarding was meant to be a way to allow logins to unknown or insecure systems. It generates a cookie with xauth and uses the security extension to limit what the remote client is allowed to do. But this is widely considered to be not useful, because the security extension uses an arbitrary and limited access control policy, which results in a lot of applications not working correctly (e.g. not being able to cut and paste) and what is really a false sense of security. See this mail for more on the subject (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-xfree/2008-11/msg00154.html).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 (Words adapted from an email by Yaakov Selkowitz)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_warning_45_no_45_xauth_45_data}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_warning_45_no_45_xauth_45_data}\b\lang1024 6.4. \b0 What does "Warning: no xauth data; using fake authentication data for X11 forwarding" mean? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Unless you started the X server with the \i\fs18\f2 -auth\i0\fs20\f0  option (typically by using \b startx\b0 ) this warning is expected and can safely be ignored. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_twenty_45_minute_45_timeout}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_twenty_45_minute_45_timeout}\b 6.5. \b0 Why can't new remote X clients connect to the X server after 20 minutes? \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Starting with OpenSSH 5.6, ssh enforces the ForwardX11Timeout (which defaults to 1200 seconds) when an untrusted connections is requested, even if an untrusted connection could not be made (e.g. you used \b ssh -X\b0  which asks for an untrusted connection, and got the "untrusted X11 forwarding setup failed" warning). This means that no new connections to the X server can be made 20 minutes after the ssh connection is established. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Use \b ssh -Y\b0 . See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_bad_45_atom}{\fldrslt Q: 6.2.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_remote_45_clients_45_cant_45_connect}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_remote_45_clients_45_cant_45_connect}\b\lang1024 6.6. \b0 Remote clients can't connect \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  The X server now uses \i\fs18\f2 -nolisten tcp\i0\fs20\f0  by default, which increases the security of the X server by not opening a TCP/IP socket. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Use the \i\fs18\f2 -listen tcp\i0\fs20\f0  option to allow the X server to open a TCP/IP socket as well, e.g. \b startxwin -- -listen tcp\b0 . See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\fldrslt Q: 4.2.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 A better solution is to stop explicitly setting DISPLAY and allowing access using \b xhost\b0  or by disabling access control. Use \b ssh -Y\b0  instead. (See the User's Guide section on X forwarding using ssh (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/ug/using-remote-apps.html#using-remote-apps-ssh) for more details).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_local_45_noncygwin_45_clients_45_cant_45_connect}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_local_45_noncygwin_45_clients_45_cant_45_connect}\b\lang1024 6.7. \b0 X sessions forwarded by \b PuTTY\b0  can't connect. Non-cygwin local X clients can't connect. \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  The X server now uses \i\fs18\f2 -nolisten tcp\i0\fs20\f0  by default, which increases the security of the X server by not opening a TCP/IP socket, only a local (UNIX domain) socket. Non-cygwin applications cannot connect to that socket. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Use the \i\fs18\f2 -listen tcp\i0\fs20\f0  option to allow the X server to open a TCP/IP socket as well, e.g. \b startxwin -- -listen tcp\b0 . See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_command_45_line_45_args}{\fldrslt Q: 4.2.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_xdmcp}\b\lang1024 7. XDMCP connections\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_no_45_valid_45_address}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_no_45_valid_45_address}7.1. \b0 XDMCP fatal error: Session declined No valid address\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X is sometimes unable to determine which local network interface's address should be reported to the {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\fldrslt \i XDMCP}} server; in these cases you need to pass \i\fs18\f2 -from\i0\fs20\f0  \i\fs18\f2 local_host_name_or_ip_address\i0\fs20\f0  to \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  to specify which interface address to report.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_audit_45_client_45_rejected}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_audit_45_client_45_rejected}\b 7.2. \b0 Why does Cygwin/X report AUDIT: client 1 rejected from IP \i\fs18\f2 remotehost\i0\fs20\f0 ?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The problem is most likely a wrong DNS (Network name resolution). Make sure your windows host has a hostname which is valid from linux too and an IP address which linux can resolve to that hostname.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 If you add a line \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
192.168.26.1 myhost\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 to /etc/hosts on the {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\fldrslt \i XDMCP}} server with the IP address and the hostname of your windows host the name resolution should work.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_query}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_query}\b\lang1024 7.3. \b0 I get no login screen when using \i\fs18\f2 -query\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 \i0\fs20\f0 A1: Disabled XDMCP on servers\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 [Mika Laitio] For security reasons, {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\fldrslt \i XDMCP}} is not enabled by default on most Linux/UNIX/*NIX/*BSD distributions (Red Hat, Mandrake, SuSE, FreeBSD, NetBSD, etc.) by default. You have to manually enable remote logins to your X Display Manager (e.g. \b xdm\b0 , \b kdm\b0 , or \b gdm\b0 ). The location of the proper config file is distribution/OS dependent, but a short list of known config file locations is given in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_tbl_45_config_45_files}{\fldrslt Table 1}}. You must change the line: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[Xdmcp]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Enable=false\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 to: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[Xdmcp]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Enable=true\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 or for xdm style configuration: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
DisplayManager.requestPort:     0\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 to: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
!DisplayManager.requestPort:     0\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_tbl_45_config_45_files}{\*\bkmkend ID_tbl_45_config_45_files}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 Table 1. Known XDM Configuration File Locations\sa100\keepn\par\trowd\trleft1440\trhdr \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Distribution/OS\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Version\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Display Manager\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Location\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Linux Mandrake\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 8.1\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 kdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /usr/share/config/kdm/kdmrc\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Debian GNU/Linux\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Unstable\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 kdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /etc/kde3/kdm/kdmrc\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Debian GNU/Linux\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Unstable\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 gdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /etc/X11/gdm/gdm.conf\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Debian GNU/Linux\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Unstable\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 xdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /etc/X11/xdm/xdm-config\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Debian GNU/Linux\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Unstable\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 wdm\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 /etc/X11/wdm/wdm-config\sa60\cell \row \pard\plain\sl-1\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20 A2: XDMCP and firewalls\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\fldrslt \i\lang1033 XDMCP}}\lang1033  will not work correctly if you have a personal firewall installed or the built-in firewall of Windows is activated.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The XDMCP protocol will send and receive data on port 177/UDP. But the actual connections will be made to the local port 6000/TCP. It is safe to allow connections since the xserver has an own security layer. An overview of used ports is given in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_tbl_45_xdmcp_45_ports}{\fldrslt Table 2}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_tbl_45_xdmcp_45_ports}{\*\bkmkend ID_tbl_45_xdmcp_45_ports}\b\lang1024 Table 2. Ports used with XDMCP connections\sa100\keepn\par\trowd\trleft1440\trhdr \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Port\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Protocol\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Direction\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \b\fs20\f1 Comment\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 177\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 UDP\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Incoming/Outgoing\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Actual XDMCP connection\sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft1440 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx3420\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx5400\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx9360 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 6000+\i\fs18\f2 display\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 TCP\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Incoming\sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li580\ri100\sl260 \fs20 Connection for X11 clients. \i\fs18\f2 display\i0\fs20\f0  is usually 0 except if you specify it on the commandline.\sa60\cell \row \pard\plain\sl-1\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_mandrake_45_8_46_1_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_mandrake_45_8_46_1_45_xdmcp}\b\fs20 7.4. \b0 XDMCP does not work with Mandrake 8.1\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_query}{\fldrslt Q: 7.3.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_gdm}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_gdm}\b 7.5. \b0 Why does GDM not work with \i\fs18\f2 -clipboard\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 \i0\fs20\f0  Newer versions of GDM have a more complex startup mechanism than the other display manager have. This can interfere with the way the clipboard integration client is started. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Workaround: add (or modify) this section in the \fs18\f2 gdm.conf\fs20\f0  (or \fs18\f2 /etc/gdm/custom.conf\fs20\f0 ) file. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
[daemon]\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
KillInitClients=false\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 7.6. \b0 I get no login screen for Solaris\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}{\fldrslt Q: 7.7.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}{\fldrslt Q: 7.8.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 [David Dawson] For whatever reason, certain versions of Solaris need fonts that are not provided by Cygwin/X; the result is that you may see the Solaris background tile and the hourglass cursor, but the XDM login prompt will never appear. The simplest solution is to point Cygwin/X at the font server that is usually running on the Solaris machine. You'll need a command line similar to the following to start your {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\fldrslt \i XDMCP}} session and to connect to the Solaris font server:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \b\fs18\lang1033\f2 X -query \i\fs16 solaris_hostname_or_ip_address\i0\fs18  -fp tcp/\i\fs16 solaris_hostname_or_ip_address\i0\fs18 :7100\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1840\sl234 \lang1024\f1 Note: \b0 The \i\fs16\f2 -fp\i0\fs18\f1  parameter is a general X Server parameter, it is not specific to Cygwin/X; therefore, the \i\fs16\f2 -fp\i0\fs18\f1  is documented in the X Server manual page (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/man1/Xserver.1.html). For additional information about fonts, see Fonts in X11R6.7 (http://www.x.org/archive/X11R7.5/doc/fonts/fonts.html).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 The standard port number for a font server is \fs18\f2 7100\fs20\f0 , however, you may need to ask your system administrator what the font server port number is if you cannot connect to a font server on port \fs18\f2 7100\fs20\f0 . It is also possible that your Solaris machine is not running a font server, in which case you will need to consult your Solaris documentation for instructions on how to run a font server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}\b\lang1024 7.7. \b0 XDMCP freezes with remote Solaris machine!\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}{\fldrslt Q: 7.6.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}{\fldrslt Q: 7.8.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 Solaris appears to not support certain display bit depths, such as 24 bits per pixel. Change your Windows display bit depth to 8, 16, or 32 and try logging in again. File a complaint with Sun if this issue is important to you, or change your Solaris machines to use XFree86 instead of the Solaris X Window System.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cde_45_via_45_xdmcp_45_hangs}\b 7.8. \b0 Login to CDE on Solaris via XDMCP hangs Cygwin/X.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See also {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_solaris_45_fonts}{\fldrslt Q: 7.6.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_remote_45_solaris}{\fldrslt Q: 7.7.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 Install the recommended set of patches (http://www.sun.com/bigadmin/patches/indexRec.html) for your version of Solaris.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_info}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xdmcp_45_info}\b 7.9. \b0 Where can I find more information about XDMCP.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See the Linux XDMCP HOWTO (http://en.tldp.org/HOWTO/XDMCP-HOWTO/) for more information about XDMCP.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_troubleshooting}{\*\bkmkend ID_troubleshooting}\b 8. Troubleshooting\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_fatal_45_error}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_fatal_45_error}8.1. \b0 Cygwin/X failed with "Fatal Error". What does this mean?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The Fatal Error is a general error message. More specific information what caused this is available in \fs18\f2 /var/log/xwin/XWin.0.log\fs20\f0 . Please check the common error messages in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_errors}{\fldrslt the Section called \i Error and Warning Messages}}. If your error is not mentioned proceed with {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_not_45_listed}{\fldrslt Q: 8.4.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_log_45_file_45_location}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_log_45_file_45_location}\b 8.2. \b0 Is there a log file that I can look at for diagnostic information and error messages?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Yes. The Cygwin/X log file is located at \fs18\f2 /var/log/xwin/XWin.0.log\fs20\f0 . You will find solutions to the most common error messages in {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_errors}{\fldrslt the Section called \i Error and Warning Messages}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_interpretation}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_interpretation}\b 8.3. \b0 I have a specific error message, what does it mean?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See the Error and Warning Messages section for help with specific error messages. Return to this section if you do not find a specific answer for the error message that you have.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_not_45_listed}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_message_45_not_45_listed}\b 8.4. \b0 I have a specific error message that is not addressed in the Error and Warning Messages section.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Search the Cygwin/X mailing list archives (https://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/) to see if the error message has already been reported and/or addressed. Report the error message to the cygwin@cygwin.com mailing list, how the error message was caused, and the behavior of the X Server after the error message was generated (exit, freeze, etc.), only if the error message has not been reported, if the circumstances that produced the error message are significantly different from other reports, or if you have additional information regarding the error message to contribute. Please include \fs18\f2 /var/log/xwin/XWin.0.log\fs20\f0  in your mail. This may help us identify the cause of your problem quicker.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_but_45_report_45_ignored}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_but_45_report_45_ignored}\b 8.5. \b0 My bug report the Cygwin/X mailing list was ignored. What do I do now?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Some bug reports are deliberately ignored by project members if the bug in question was recently dealt with; did you search the mailing list archives (https://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/) for a solution to your problem before submitting your bug report? Some bug reports are ignored if they do not contain sufficient information to understand the situation that produces the bug; did your bug report have enough information? Some bug reports are missed or forgotten, thus some valid bug reports do not receive a reply; simply resubmit such bug reports that have not received a response within 7 days of submission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_freeze_45_at_45_startup}{\*\bkmkend ID_freeze_45_at_45_startup}\b 8.6. \b0 Why does Cygwin/X freeze right after startup?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Zone Alarm 5 is known to break Cygwin/X. As a result you'll see this line (or a similar) as last output in \fs18\f2 /var/log/xwin/XWin.0.log\fs20\f0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 Rules = "xorg" Model = "pc101" Layout = "us" Variant = "(null)" Options = "(null)"\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 Disabling Zone Alarm will not solve this problem. You can only uninstall Zone Alarm 5 and switch to an earlier version (4.5 is known to work) or use a different personal firewall. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 Another reason is \fs18\f2 /tmp\fs20\f0  mounted in textmode. This does only happen with the \i\fs18\f2 -multiwindow\i0\fs20\f0  and \i\fs18\f2 -clipboard\i0\fs20\f0  switches because of the extra threads within Cygwin/X. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 You can remount \fs18\f2 /tmp\fs20\f0  to binmode with these commands: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 mount -b "$(cygpath -m /tmp)" /tmp\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0  If this fails with an error message stating insufficient rights, try \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 mount -b -u "$(cygpath -m /tmp)" /tmp\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_poor_45_performance}{\*\bkmkend ID_poor_45_performance}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 8.7. \b0 Cygwin/X has very poor performance. What's the reason?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Most likely you have installed some kind of personal firewall, VPN software or any other software that modifies the TCP/IP stack of Windows. Especially Webwasher and some other filtering software are known to slow down the network traffic.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 Some online virus scanners like Symantec Antivirus do slowdown Cygwin/X a lot. They scan every file access and network traffic which causes serious processing overhead beyond that from the X11 protocol and the unix emulation layer.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 So far there is no known solution but to disable the virus scanner completely.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \lang1024 [Dr. Edward Wornar] Certain programs that are installed by various drivers and software packages can consume an incredible amount of system resources and processing time. One known example of such a program is \fs18\f2 ATI2evxx.exe\fs20\f0 , a utility installed with some ATI Technologies graphics card drivers. Answers That Work (http://www.answersthatwork.com/) has information on \fs18\f2 ATI2evxx.exe\fs20\f0  on their Task List Programs - A (http://www.answersthatwork.com/Tasklist_pages/tasklist_a.htm) page. You may want to try disabling, one-by-one, \fs18\f2 ATI2evxx.exe\fs20\f0  and other such programs until you find the program that is causing the slowdown.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_microsoft_45_services_45_for_45_unix}{\*\bkmkend ID_microsoft_45_services_45_for_45_unix}\b 8.8. \b0 I have Microsoft Services for Unix installed and can't type anything. Help me!!!\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Microsoft Services for Unix set some environment variables which points Cygwin/X to outdated or not existing files. These variables are \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 XAPPLRESDIR\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XCMSDB\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XKEYSYMDB\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XNLSPATH\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 To have Cygwin/X work correctly you have to unset at least \i\fs18\f2 XKEYSYMDB\i0\fs20\f0 . \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Reported by Juan Medina, Pavel Rozenboim\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_tasklist_45_programs_45_slow}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_tasklist_45_programs_45_slow}\b\lang1024 8.9. \b0 Cygwin/X is extremely slow, especially when using XDMCP to connect to remote machines.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_poor_45_performance}{\fldrslt Q: 8.7.}}.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_trackpoint}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_trackpoint}\b 8.10. \b0 Simulated mouse wheel scrolling doesn't work with a TrackPoint mouse (found on IBM laptops) or Synaptics Touchpads\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 [Gerald S. Williams] The TrackPoint driver tries to send scroll up/down messages to the default scrollbar in a window. Cygwin/X does not use Windows scrollbars for X Client windows, so we must configure the TrackPoint driver to send standard WM_MOUSEWHEEL messages to the Cygwin/X window. This can be done by editing the TrackPoint configuration that can be found in the \fs18\f2 tp4table.dat\fs20\f0  and/or \fs18\f2 tp4scrol.dat\fs20\f0  files, which are usually located in \fs18\f2 %SYSTEM_ROOT%\\System32\\\fs20\f0 , \fs18\f2 %PROGRAMFILES%\\Synaptics\\SynTP\\\fs20\f0  or \fs18\f2 %PROGRAMFILES%\\Lenovo\\Trackpoint\\\fs20\f0 . \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Add the following to the \'93Pass 0 rules\'94section and then restart your computer to ensure the driver reloads it's settings. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
; X Windows\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
*,*,XWin.exe,*,*,*,WheelStd,0,9\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_no_45_rootwindow_45_with_45_run}{\*\bkmkend ID_no_45_rootwindow_45_with_45_run}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 8.11. \b0 Why is the root window not shown in normal mode?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_cross_45_as_45_pointer}{\*\bkmkend ID_cross_45_as_45_pointer}\b 8.12. \b0 Why is the cross the default cursor in multiwindow mode?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 To workaround this add the command \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 run xsetroot -cursor_name left_ptr -fg white -bg black\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0  to \fs18\f2 startxwin.bat\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_xterm_45_not_45_resizing}{\*\bkmkend ID_xterm_45_not_45_resizing}\b\fs20\lang1024\f0 8.13. \b0 How can I adjust the linewidth in bash after resizing XTerm?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 We think this question is probably obsolete\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Try starting \fs18\f2 resize\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_numlock_45_modifier}{\*\bkmkend ID_numlock_45_modifier}\b\lang1024 8.14. \b0 Why do some menus not work if Num-Lock is on?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The problem are programs which treat Num-Lock as modifier similar to Control. The programs expect a plain click but received some strange Num-Lock-Click combination and can't associate this with the action "open menu".\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_errors}{\*\bkmkend ID_errors}\b 9. Error and Warning Messages\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_owner_45_tmp_45__46_X11_45_unix}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_owner_45_tmp_45__46_X11_45_unix}9.1. \b0 _XSERVTransmkdir: Owner of /tmp/.X11-unix should be set to root\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
_XSERVTransmkdir: Owner of /tmp/.X11-unix should be set to root\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
_XSERVTransmkdir: ERROR: euid != 0,directory /tmp/.X11-unix will not be created\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 This question should be obsolete as this error is no longer generated.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 This warning message can be ignored; it does not cause any known problems.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_security_45_policy}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_security_45_policy}\b\lang1024 9.2. \b0 error opening security policy file /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xserver/SecurityPolicy\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete as this error is no longer generated.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 This error is harmless.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_duplicate_45_invocation}{\*\bkmkend ID_duplicate_45_invocation}\b\lang1024 9.3. \b0 Duplicate invocation on display number: 0. Exiting.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Most likely you have started \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  twice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 if you start multiple instances of \fs18\f2 X\fs20\f0  you have to give then unique display numbers\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 X -query foo\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
X :1 -query bar\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
X :2 -query blubb\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0 Specifying no display number is the same as using \i\fs18\f2 :0\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \i0\fs20\f0 If you want another terminal window (which in fact is just a convenient side effect of running \fs18\f2 startxwin\fs20\f0 ) you should do this by starting \fs18\f2 xterm &\fs20\f0  from an existing terminal window, from the notification area icon menu, from a cygwin shell or from the start menu.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_font_45_eof}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_font_45_eof}\b\lang1024 9.4. \b0 Fatal server error: could not open default font 'fixed'\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete as the default font is now built into the server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 This error occurs for one of three reasons:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab \lang1024 1.\tab You do not have a font package which provides the default font ('fixed') installed. This is rarely the problem; but in the event that it is the problem, just rerun Cygwin' setup program, select the font-misc-misc package and install it.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab 2.\tab The mount point for \fs18\f2 /usr/share/fonts/\fs20\f0  was either invalid (does not point to a valid folder on your system) or is a text-mode mount. You can confirm that this is the problem by running \b mount\b0  from a Cygwin shell and checking the disk path returned for the \fs18\f2 /usr/share/fonts/\fs20\f0  mount point.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li2200\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 You cannot reliably fix this problem by deleting your Cygwin installation and reinstalling it. The mount points that Cygwin was using will be left in your system settings and the invalid mount point for \fs16\f2 /usr/share/fonts/\fs18\f1  will be used again when you perform the reinstallation. You SHOULD follow the instructions below to fix the problem.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1800\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 To fix the problem, perform the following steps:\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2160\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx2110\tx2160\tab \lang1024 a.\tab Open a Cygwin shell and run \b umount /usr/share/fonts/\b0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2160\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx2110\tx2160\tab b.\tab Close the Cygwin shell.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2160\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx2110\tx2160\tab c.\tab Run Cygwin's setup program.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2160\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx2110\tx2160\tab d.\tab For each of the font packages, if they are marked Keep, then select Reinstall, otherwise leave them as they are:\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2160\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx2110\tx2160\tab e.\tab Allow Cygwin's setup program to download and reinstall the fonts packages. The key to fixing this problem is that the files were previously untarred into an invalid location; removing the mount point for the fonts directory should result in the files being untarred to a valid location.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab 3.\tab You chose "DOS/text" as the "Default Text File type" during Cygwin setup, ignoring the advice that the Default Text File Type should be left on Unix/binary unless you have a very good reason to switch it to DOS/text.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260 \lang1033 Open a Cygwin shell and run.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
umount /usr/share/fonts/\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
mount -f -s -b "C:/cygwin/usr/share/fonts" "/usr/share/fonts"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 Reinstall your fonts\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_removing_45_font_45_path_45_element}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_removing_45_font_45_path_45_element}\b\lang1024 9.5. \b0 Could not init font path element /usr/share/fonts/\i\fs18\f2 *\i0\fs20\f0 /, removing from list!\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 These warnings are generally harmless since they indicate that default search paths for fonts do not actually contain fonts; this is only a problem if the \fs18\f2 misc\fs20\f0  path does not contain fonts and/or all of the paths do not contain fonts.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 If you are getting these message and the X Server is also failing to start, then see {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_font_45_eof}{\fldrslt Q: 9.4.}} for information on how to fix your fonts.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_procedure_45_entry_45_point_45_missing}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_procedure_45_entry_45_point_45_missing}\b\lang1024 9.6. \b0 The procedure entry point _check_for_executable could not be located\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Programs that you are attempting to use were compiled against a newer version of Cygwin than is currently on your system. Run Cygwin's setup program to update your installation to the latest version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_cygX11_45_6_46_dll_45_missing}{\*\bkmkend ID_cygX11_45_6_46_dll_45_missing}\b\lang1024 9.7. \b0 cygX11-6.dll not found after installation or upgrade\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_status_45_access_45_violation}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_status_45_access_45_violation}\b 9.8. \b0 Exception: STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 It is believed that this may have the same underlying causes as {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_fork_45_failures}{\fldrslt Q: 9.16.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  uses a shared memory section amongst all loaded copies of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0 ; unfortunately, the layout and usage of the shared memory section changes between versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0 . Loading two different versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  will cause the shared memory section to become corrupted, which almost always results in an Exception: STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION. You must search your filesystem(s) and remove all copies of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  except the copy in \fs18\f2 /bin\fs20\f0 . You must remove the different versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  even if they are not in your path, as programs that depend on \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  attempt to load the file from the local directory before searching other paths; thus, it is rather easy, and common, for multiple versions of \fs18\f2 cygwin1.dll\fs20\f0  to become loaded at the same time if they exist on a particular system.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 See also this main Cygwin FAQ question (http://cygwin.com/faq.html#faq.setup.setup-fails-on-ts) for an issue which may cause this problem with older binaries on Terminal Server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_max_45_clients}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_max_45_clients}\b 9.9. \b0 Xlib: connection to "\i\fs18\f2 local_host_name_or_ip_address\i0\fs20\f0 :0.0" refused by server Xlib: Maximum number of clients reached\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X queries getdtablesize() for the maximum number of client connections allowed; by default Cygwin returns 32 from getdtablesize(). Cygwin/X Server Test Series (http://x.cygwin.com/devel/server/) release Test44 (http://x.cygwin.com/devel/server/changelog.html), released on 2001-08-15, changed the maximum number of clients from 32 to 1024 by passing the square of getdtablesize() to setdtablesize(). \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xio_45_fatal_45_io_45_error_45_104}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xio_45_fatal_45_io_45_error_45_104}\b 9.10. \b0 XIO: fatal IO error 104 (Connection reset by peer) on X server "127.0.0.1:0.0"\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_max_45_clients}{\fldrslt Q: 9.9.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cannot_45_open_45_display}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cannot_45_open_45_display}\b 9.11. \b0 Cannot Open Display: 127.0.0.1:0.0\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Certain classes of software, such as that used for {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_vpn}{\fldrslt \i Virtual Private Networking}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_firewall}{\fldrslt \i fire-walling}} may cause the IP address 127.0.0.1, or other local adapter addresses, to be redirected, to become inoperable in some way, or to be operated in a manner that violates the defined operation of IP address.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 As a potential remedy, try removing all instances of such software; this may not always fix the problem though, as some software may leave artifacts even after uninstallation is completed. The only way to be sure that you have not found a Cygwin/X bug is to install Windows on a freshly formatted hard drive, followed by Cygwin and Cygwin/X, and finally add your other software one application at a time until Cygwin/X stops working.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 Some products that have been reported to cause problems: \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Aventail Connect\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Zonealarm PC Firewall from Zonelab\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1840\sl234 \b\fs18\f1 Note: \b0 These products may not cause problems in all configurations. However, the Cygwin/X project has neither the time, ability, nor resources to help you correctly configure your third-party software.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0  See the main Cygwin FAQ question (http://cygwin.com/faq.html#faq.using.bloda) for an up-to-date list of software which has been known to interfere with the correct operation of Cygwin.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_error_45_env_45_space}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_error_45_env_45_space}\b\lang1024 9.12. \b0 Out of environment space\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Increase your Windows environment space by following the instructions provided by Microsoft (http://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q230/2/05.ASP).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_too_45_many_45_parameters}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_too_45_many_45_parameters}\b 9.13. \b0 Too many parameters\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_error_45_env_45_space}{\fldrslt Q: 9.12.}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_xcb_45_lock_45_assertion}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_xcb_45_lock_45_assertion}\b 9.14. \b0 "xcb_xlib_lock: Assertion '!c->xlib.lock' failed." or "xcb_xlib_unlock: Assertion 'c->xlib.lock' failed." \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 This question should be obsolete.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Both of these represent bugs in a caller of libX11, and \i not\i0  in libX11 or libxcb. The first assertion means that a caller attempted to lock the display while already locked. The second assertion means that a caller attempted to unlock the display without having it locked.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 If you encounter such bugs, please report a bug against the offending software (which is \i not\i0  libX11 or libxcb)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 This error can be worked around by using \b export LIBXCB_ALLOW_SLOPPY_LOCK=1\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_failed_45_to_45_compile_45_keymap}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_failed_45_to_45_compile_45_keymap}\lang1024 9.15. \b0 Fatal server error: Failed to activate core devices.\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl234 \fs18\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
(EE) XKB: Could not invoke xkbcomp\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
(EE) XKB: Couldn't compile keymap\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
XKB: Failed to compile keymap\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Keyboard initialization failed. This could be a missing or incorrect setup of xkeyboard-config.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Fatal server error: Failed to activate core devices.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 \fs20\f0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Verify that xkeyboard-config is correctly installed using \b cygcheck -c xkeyboard-config\b0 ,\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Check that \b /usr/bin/xkbcomp\b0  can be run from a bash shell. If that fails, see if \b cygcheck /usr/bin/xkbcomp\b0  reports any missing DLLs.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Something is interferring with the ability of the X server to invoke \b xkbcomp\b0  to compile the keymap.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_fork_45_failures}{\fldrslt Q: 9.16.}} for possible causes.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1024  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_fork_45_failures}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_fork_45_failures}\b 9.16. \b0 "fatal error - unable to remap (some dll) to same address as parent: (some hex number) != (some other hex number)" or "(some dll): Loaded to different address: parent(some hex number) != child(some other hex number)"\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  This is commonly caused by one of three things: \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 You have run Cygwin's setup program to do an update while some cygwin processes were running, and then clicked on the continue option in the "In-use files detected" dialog, and then tried to carry on using Cygwin without rebooting as advised by setup. Reboot.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 This is one of the symptoms of an application interfering with Cygwin's fork() emulation. See the main Cygwin FAQ question (http://cygwin.com/faq.html#faq.using.bloda) for a list of software which has been known to interfere with the correct operation of Cygwin.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 This also caused by DLLs with conflicting base addresses preventing Cygwin's fork() emulation from functioning correctly. See the main Cygwin FAQ question (http://cygwin.com/faq.html#faq.using.fixing-fork-failures) for advice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_died_45_waiting_45_for_45_longjmp}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_died_45_waiting_45_for_45_longjmp}\b 9.17. \b0 fork: child -1 - died waiting for longjmp before initialization, retry (some number), exit code (some hex number), errno (some other number)\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  This is believed to have the same underlying causes as {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_fork_45_failures}{\fldrslt Q: 9.16.}} \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_porting}{\*\bkmkend ID_porting}\b 10. Porting Software\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_ported_45_software_45_list}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_ported_45_software_45_list}10.1. \b0 Is there a list of software that has been ported to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Look in Cygwin's setup program for packages in the X11 category. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_port}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_how_45_to_45_port}\b 10.2. \b0 How do I start porting software to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X provides a software interface that is very similar to the software interface provided by GNU/Linux and other UNIX systems. Most software packages will compile on Cygwin/X without any changes at all. To begin with, try to compile a given software package following that package's compilation instructions for GNU/Linux.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_common_45_porting_45_problems}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_common_45_porting_45_problems}\b 10.3. \b0 Are there common problems encountered when porting software to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 One common problem encountered when porting software to Cygwin/X is due to Cygwin's inability to distinguish between files with the same name but different capitalization (e.g. XvMC.h and xvmc.h), which is due to a Windows' limitation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_example_45_include_45_problems}{\*\bkmkend ID_example_45_include_45_problems}\b Example 1. Include Problems\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \b0\lang1033 This example is based off an error that actually occurred in the source code tree in \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/Xext/xvmc.c\fs20\f0 . \fs18\f2 xvmc.c\fs20\f0  included \fs18\f2 XvMC.h\fs20\f0 , as shown below:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
#include "XvMC.h"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 The intention was to include the file \fs18\f2 xc/include/extensions/XvMC.h\fs20\f0 . Unfortunately, there was a file named \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/Xext/xvmc.h\fs20\f0  that ended up getting included instead of the desired file, because the precompiler searched the local directory, \fs18\f2 xc/programs/Xserver/Xext/\fs20\f0 , before searching the rest of the include path. Cygwin can't distinguish between \fs18\f2 XvMC.h\fs20\f0  and \fs18\f2 xvmc.h\fs20\f0 , so \fs18\f2 xvmc.h\fs20\f0  ended up being included in \fs18\f2 xvmc.c\fs20\f0 . The build process on Cygwin broke because the contents of \fs18\f2 XvMC.h\fs20\f0  were entirely different than the contents of \fs18\f2 xvmc.h\fs20\f0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 The solution was to change the include to specifically reference the desired header:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 \sa0\par\fi0\sb0
#include "../../../include/extensions/XvMC.h"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_opengl_45_link_45_problems}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_opengl_45_link_45_problems}\b\fs20\f0 10.4. \b0 Problems linking OpenGL applications? Undefined reference to _gl\i something\i0 ?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Cygwin has two OpenGL implementations: \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab 1.\tab headers in /usr/include/w32api/GL, libraries (-lglut32 -lglu32 -lopengl32) from the opengl and w32api packages which are for displaying OpenGL graphics directly through the native Windows interface (Win32) without any X server\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1800\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1750\tx1800\tab 2.\tab headers in /usr/include/GL, libraries (-lglut -lglu -lgl) from the Mesa libGL packages (libGL-devel, libGL1, libGLU-devel, libGLU1, libglut-devel, libglut3, freeglut) which are for displaying OpenGL graphics through an X server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 These are incompatible, even the headers (as the native OpenGL API has the stdcall calling convention on x86), so you must exercise care if you have both sets of devel packages installed. An application must be built using only one of these.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20 X applications using GLX must be built using option 2.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Applications using GLUT have a choice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1640\sl260\fi-200 \tx1640 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20 Applications using the WGL API must be built using option 1.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 (Words adapted from an email by Andr\'c3\'a9 Bleau)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_contributing}{\*\bkmkend ID_contributing}\b\lang1024 11. Contributing\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_instructions_45_for_45_contributing}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_instructions_45_for_45_contributing}11.1. \b0 Are there step-by-step instructions for contributing to Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Yes. The Cygwin/X Contributor's Guide (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/cg/cygwin-x-cg.html) has step-by-step instructions for obtaining the source, building the source, building debug versions of the source, and even cross-compiling under Linux.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_editors}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_editors}\b 11.2. \b0 Are there editors for Windows that understand and preserve UNIX end of line characters?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Yes. Emacs and XEmacs are available for Windows; they both understand and preserve UNIX end of line characters.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_contrib_45_diff}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_contrib_45_diff}\b 11.3. \b0 How should I generate patches for Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Only submit patches that have UNIX end of line characters. See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_editors}{\fldrslt Q: 11.2.}} for information on editors for Windows that are aware of UNIX end of line characters.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_where_45_to_45_submit_45_patches}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_where_45_to_45_submit_45_patches}\b 11.4. \b0 Where do I submit patches for Cygwin/X?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Submit patches for Cygwin/X to the cygwin@cygwin.com mailing list.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_contrib_45_diff}{\fldrslt Q: 11.3.}} for more information on generating patches.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_autoconf}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_why_45_no_45_autoconf}\b\lang1024 11.5. \b0 Why doesn't the X Window System use GNU's \b autoconf\b0 ?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 It does! Thanks to the excellent efforts of the X.Org community, the X Window System has been autotoolized since X.Org R7.0. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 Anyone who despaired of touching the monolithic tree will find things much easier now with modular packages.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_which_45_compilers_45_supported}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_which_45_compilers_45_supported}\b\lang1024 11.6. \b0 What compiler does Cygwin/X use, and which compilers are supported?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X uses the gcc compiler from the Free Software Foundation. Cygwin/X source code is mostly ANSI C compliant, but we cannot guarantee that Cygwin/X will compile with any other compiler, nor can we afford the time to support compilers other than gcc.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 See the GCC Home Page (http://gcc.gnu.org) for more information on gcc.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_cross_45_compiling}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_cross_45_compiling}\b\lang1024 11.7. \b0 Is cross-compiling from a non-Cygwin platform supported?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cross-compiling from a non-Cygwin platform is described in the Cygwin/X Contributor's Guide (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/cg/cygwin-x-cg.html)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_help_45_installing_45_docbook}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_help_45_installing_45_docbook}\b 11.8. \b0 Where can I get help for installing DocBook on Cygwin?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 The required packages are listed in the Cygwin/X Contributor's Guide (http://x.cygwin.com/docs/cg/cygwin-x-cg.html). \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_license_45_ptc}{\*\bkmkend ID_license_45_ptc}\b 12. Licenses, Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_what_45_licenses_45_apply}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_what_45_licenses_45_apply}12.1. \b0 What licenses apply to Cygwin/X source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X proper isn't covered by a single license, as Cygwin/X is made up of two parts that are covered by distinct licenses: Cygwin and the X Window System.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_license_45_x_45_window_45_system}{\fldrslt Q: 12.2.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_license_45_cygwin}{\fldrslt Q: 12.3.}} for more information regarding the licenses that apply to Cygwin/X.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_license_45_x_45_window_45_system}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_license_45_x_45_window_45_system}\b\lang1024 12.2. \b0 What licenses apply to the X Window System source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 X Window System source code is generally licensed under an X11 style license (http://cgit.freedesktop.org/xorg/xserver/tree/COPYING), which is certified by the Free Software Foundation (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#GPLCompatibleLicenses) as compatible with the GNU GPL.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_license_45_cygwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_license_45_cygwin}\b 12.3. \b0 What license applies to Cygwin source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin source code is licensed under a modified version of the GNU GPL (https://cygwin.com/licensing.html). Cygwin's license modification specifically allows third-party software under an open source license (http://opensource.org/licenses) to be linked with Cygwin without requiring that the source code for the third-party software be distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL. Cygwin's developers went to great trouble to obtain this modification and should be thanked for doing so, as without it the modification, Cygwin/X linking to Cygwin would be the subject of endless discussion.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin_45_x}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin_45_x}\b 12.4. \b0 Who holds the copyright on the Cygwin/X source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Cygwin/X proper doesn't have a single copyright holder, as Cygwin/X is made up of two parts, namely Cygwin and the X Window System; each part follows a different scheme in regards to who will hold the copyright on source code.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260 \lang1033 See {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_copyright_45_x_45_window_45_system}{\fldrslt Q: 12.5.}} and {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin}{\fldrslt Q: 12.6.}} for more information regarding who holds the copyright on Cygwin/X source code.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_copyright_45_x_45_window_45_system}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_copyright_45_x_45_window_45_system}\b\lang1024 12.5. \b0 Who holds the copyright on the X Window System source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Each source code file in the X Window System typically has its own license and copyright statement. Therefore, there is not a general rule for determining who holds the copyright on a particular X Window System source file, as each author is free to assign the copyright to someone else, to some group, or to keep the copyright themselves. You must inspect the source code file in question to determine who holds the copyright for that file.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_copyright_45_cygwin}\b 12.6. \b0 Who holds the copyright on the Cygwin source code?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Red Hat (http://redhat.com/) owns the copyright on the Cygwin source code. Red Hat requires that copyright be assigned to Red Hat for non-trivial changes to Cygwin. You must fill out a copyright transfer form if you are going to contribute substantial changes to Cygwin.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_motif_45_license}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_motif_45_license}\b 12.7. \b0 What license applies to Motif?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260  Motif is a product of The Open Group (http://www.opengroup.org/). After many years under the The Open Group Public License (http://www.opengroup.org/openmotif/license) (which does not satisfy the Open Source Definition (http://opensource.org/docs/osd/) and is thus not compatible with Cygwin's license), Motif was released as free software under the LGPL v2.1 in October 2012. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li1440\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_q_45_trademark_45_xwin}{\*\bkmkend ID_q_45_trademark_45_xwin}\b 12.8. \b0 Isn't \'93XWin\'94 trademarked by StarNet Communications?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb50\li1440\sl260 Not in the USA, at least. A quick search at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (http://www.uspto.gov/) for \'93XWin\'94 turns up one dead record and one live record. The live record is for a logo belonging to a rock crusher manufacturer based out of Belgium. Neither trademark affects Cygwin/X, as the dead record is no longer enforceable, while the live record is in an unrelated and distinct industry; there cannot be confusion between rock crushers and computer programs.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_biblio}{\*\bkmkend ID_biblio}\b\fs28\f1 Bibliography\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl449 {\*\bkmkstart ID_biblio_45_books}{\*\bkmkend ID_biblio_45_books}\fs34 Books\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_ScheiflerGettys92}{\*\bkmkend ID_ScheiflerGettys92}\b0\fs20\f0 [ScheiflerGettys92]\~Robert W. Scheifler, James Gettys, Jim Flowers, and David Rosenthal, 1992, 1-55558-088-2, Butterworth-Heinemann, \i X Window System: The Complete Reference to Xlib, X Protocol, ICCCM, and XLFD\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_Richter99}{\*\bkmkend ID_Richter99}[Richter99]\~Jeffrey Richter, 1999, 1-57231-996-8, Microsoft Press, \i Programming Applications for Microsoft Windows: Mastering the critical building blocks of 32-bit and 64-bit Windows-based applications\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_Petzold99}{\*\bkmkend ID_Petzold99}[Petzold99]\~Charles Petzold, 1999, 1-57231-995-X, Microsoft Press, \i Programming Windows: The definitive guide to the Win32 API\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_McKay99}{\*\bkmkend ID_McKay99}[McKay99]\~Everett N. McKay, 1999, 0-7356-0586-6, Microsoft Press, \i Developing User Interfaces for Microsoft Windows: Practical and effective methods for improving the user experience\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_JonesOhlund99}{\*\bkmkend ID_JonesOhlund99}[JonesOhlund99]\~Anthony Jones and Jim Ohlund, 1999, 0-7356-0560-2, Microsoft Press, \i Network Programming for Microsoft Windows: Clear, practical guide to Microsoft's networking APIs\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_Yuan01}{\*\bkmkend ID_Yuan01}[Yuan01]\~Feng Yuan, 2001, 0-13-086985-6, Prentice Hall PTR, \i Windows Graphics Programming: Win32 GDI and DirectDraw\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_CohenWoodring98}{\*\bkmkend ID_CohenWoodring98}[CohenWoodring98]\~Aaron Cohen and Mike Woodring, 1998, 1-56592-296-4, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i Win32 Multithreaded Programming: Building Thread-Safe Applications\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_CameronRosenblattRaymond96}{\*\bkmkend ID_CameronRosenblattRaymond96}[CameronRosenblattRaymond96]\~Debra Cameron, Bill Rosenblatt, and Eric Raymond, 1996, 1991, 1-56592-152-6, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i Learning GNU Emacs: UNIX Text Processing\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_Lewine91}{\*\bkmkend ID_Lewine91}[Lewine91]\~Edited by Dale Dougherty, Donald A. Lewine, 1991, 0-937175-73-0, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., \i POSIX Programmer's Guide: Writing Portable UNIX Programs\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1440\sl260\fi-480 {\*\bkmkstart ID_KernighanRitchie88}{\*\bkmkend ID_KernighanRitchie88}[KernighanRitchie88]\~Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie, 1988, 1978, 0-13-110370-9, Prentice Hall PTR, \i The C Programming Language: ANSI C\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_glossary}{\*\bkmkend ID_glossary}\b\fs41\f1 Glossary\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_glossary_45_f}{\*\bkmkend ID_glossary_45_f}F\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\s3\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_firewall}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_firewall}\fs20 firewall\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 Firewall software attempts to protect an internal network from intrusions originating from an external network.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_glossary_45_v}{\*\bkmkend ID_glossary_45_v}\b\fs41\lang1024\f1 V\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\s3\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_vpn}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_vpn}\fs20 Virtual Private Network\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 Virtual Private Networks are encrypted tunnels through which private data can be safely transmitted over a private network (e.g. the Internet).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_glossary_45_x}{\*\bkmkend ID_glossary_45_x}\b\fs41\lang1024\f1 X\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\s3\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_xdm}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_xdm}\fs20 X Display Manager\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 An X Display Manager presents a graphical login screen to X users. Often an XDM will allow the user to select a desktop environment or window manager to be for their login session. Some X Display Managers are xdm, gdm (Gnome Display Manager), and kdm (KDE Display Manager).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb150\s3\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_xdmcp}\b\lang1024\f1 X Display Manager Control Protocol\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 XDMCP allows XDM to process logins for users remote to the machine that XDM is running on; login sessions will be run on the machine running XDM. For example, at a university you may use XDMCP to login to an X session running on an engineering department computer from your dorm room.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \i\lang1024 See Also: {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_gloss_45_xdm}{\fldrslt \i0 X Display Manager}}\i0 .\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb150\s3\li960\sl260 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gloss_45_x11forwarding}{\*\bkmkend ID_gloss_45_x11forwarding}\b\f1 X11 Forwarding\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl260 \b0\lang1033\f0 Some SSH programs like OpenSSH provide a feature where in addition to the normal text channel opened between the local and the remote host another encrypted channel is opened for the communication between the X11 client and the X11 server. The SSH server will act as proxy-server for the X11 clients and will forward all communication to the X11 server.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb311\s1\sl539 {\*\bkmkstart ID_gfdl}{\*\bkmkend ID_gfdl}\b\fs41\lang1024\f1 A. GNU Free Documentation License\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Version 1.3, 3 November 2008\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Copyright \'a9 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc. (http://www.fsf.org/)\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section0}{\*\bkmkend ID_section0}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  0. PREAMBLE \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional and useful document \'93free\'94 in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 This License is a kind of \'93copyleft\'94, which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section1}{\*\bkmkend ID_section1}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The \'93Document\'94, below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as \'93you\'94. You accept the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A \'93Modified Version\'94 of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A \'93Secondary Section\'94 is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document\'92s overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The \'93Invariant Sections\'94 are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The \'93Cover Texts\'94 are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A \'93Transparent\'94 copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not \'93Transparent\'94 is called \'93Opaque\'94.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The \'93Title Page\'94 means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, \'93Title Page\'94 means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work\'92s title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The \'93publisher\'94 means any person or entity that distributes copies of the Document to the public.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 A section \'93Entitled XYZ\'94 means a named subunit of the Document whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as \'93Acknowledgements\'94, \'93Dedications\'94, \'93Endorsements\'94, or \'93History\'94.) To \'93Preserve the Title\'94 of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a section \'93Entitled XYZ\'94 according to this definition.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section2}{\*\bkmkend ID_section2}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  2. VERBATIM COPYING \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section3}{\*\bkmkend ID_section3}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document\'92s license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section4}{\*\bkmkend ID_section4}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  4. MODIFICATIONS \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab \lang1024 A.\tab Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives permission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab B.\tab List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its principal authors, if it has fewer than five), unless they release you from this requirement.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab C.\tab State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as the publisher.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab D.\tab Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab E.\tab Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the other copyright notices.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab F.\tab Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab G.\tab Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and required Cover Texts given in the Document\'92s license notice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab H.\tab Include an unaltered copy of this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab I.\tab Preserve the section Entitled \'93History\'94, Preserve its Title, and add to it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section Entitled \'93History\'94 in the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified Version as stated in the previous sentence.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab J.\tab Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed in the \'93History\'94 section. You may omit a network location for a work that was published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab K.\tab For any section Entitled \'93Acknowledgements\'94 or \'93Dedications\'94, Preserve the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab L.\tab Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab M.\tab Delete any section Entitled \'93Endorsements\'94. Such a section may not be included in the Modified Version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab N.\tab Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled \'93Endorsements\'94 or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1320\sl260\fi-360 \tqr\tx1270\tx1320\tab O.\tab Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 \lang1033 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version\'92s license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may add a section Entitled \'93Endorsements\'94, provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties \'97 for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section5}{\*\bkmkend ID_section5}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled \'93History\'94 in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled \'93History\'94; likewise combine any sections Entitled \'93Acknowledgements\'94, and any sections Entitled \'93Dedications\'94. You must delete all sections Entitled \'93Endorsements\'94.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section6}{\*\bkmkend ID_section6}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section7}{\*\bkmkend ID_section7}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an \'93aggregate\'94 if the copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation\'92s users beyond what the individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works of the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate, the Document\'92s Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section8}{\*\bkmkend ID_section8}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  8. TRANSLATION \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English version of this License and the original versions of those notices and disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If a section in the Document is Entitled \'93Acknowledgements\'94, \'93Dedications\'94, or \'93History\'94, the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section9}{\*\bkmkend ID_section9}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  9. TERMINATION \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does not give you any rights to use it.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section10}{\*\bkmkend ID_section10}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See Copyleft (http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/).\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License \'93or any later version\'94 applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of this License can be used, that proxy\'92s public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_section11}{\*\bkmkend ID_section11}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  11. RELICENSING \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 \'93Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site\'94 (or \'93MMC Site\'94) means any World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works. A public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server. A \'93Massive Multiauthor Collaboration\'94 (or \'93MMC\'94) contained in the site means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 \'93CC-BY-SA\'94 means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco, California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license published by that same organization.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 \'93Incorporate\'94 means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in part, as part of another Document.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 An MMC is \'93eligible for relicensing\'94 if it is licensed under this License, and if all works that were first published under this License somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and (2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009, provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\li960\sl374 {\*\bkmkstart ID_addendum}{\*\bkmkend ID_addendum}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1  ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 Copyright \'a9 YEAR YOUR NAME\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the section entitled \'93GNU Free Documentation License\'94.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace the \'93with\'85 Texts.\'94 line with this:\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl234 \fs18\lang1024\f2 with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl260 \fs20\lang1033\f0 If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl260 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.\hyphpar0\par}
